so back in 2010 I was in the PhD school
doing some research on languages a small
length which is to mean specific
languages and a person I knew invited me
to jetbrains office to talk about some
ideas and I thought that it was about
the domain-specific languages that they
were doing here yeah there is still a
project on the mean specific languages
which is disconnected from problem but
turned out they actually were if we're
thinking about creating a new language
as far as not I know the initial
conversation went like this like a
founder of the company was asking like
what we're doing I DS pretty well what
else can we do for programmers and one
of the key engineers at the time said
like the best thing you can do for a
programmer is a programming language and
Mac strifer of who is the CEO now and at
that time he was I think leading the
idea project I said like what are you
talking about language very - in company
yeah but next morning max came to the
office and said yeah let's do it
and they started thinking about the
language and then somebody vitami and we
had a conversation I started like max I
said like why their language is already
okay you don't like Java there are
alternatives to Java the problem is
solve don't try to solve it again like
there's no point and they actually told
me a few things I didn't know one thing
that existing like I had an academic
background so they explained how the
existing languages were to academic and
didn't actually work in many industrial
settings and it was like very convincing
they actually didn't work and another
important argument was that Ian says a
company has a very good position in the
market to actually start a language and
make it visible so that can't be adopted
the case like if I as an individual if I
style it a starter language in the
corner many people do this like everyday
but those languages don't get anywhere
so two big things one that there is an
actual need and the other
that's starting here I can actually have
a chance to get it popular word the main
agreements also I was finishing my PhD
which I acquired that way he never
defended because comment was more
interesting I I was thinking about a job
and I was considering like either doing
research in some lab or doing my own
project here it was pretty easy choice
you know a funny bit to it the story at
that point I was thinking about which
country I would like to live in and I
tried a few places and figured it didn't
matter too much to me so I decided I
would just pick a job and the job ended
up in my hometown
[Music]